o I have been looking at ODT (Open Document Format) and DocBook.  ODT
is huge and complex, at least for my resources right now.  I am
wondering if Docbook can be a reasonable starting point instead.  The
advantage of docbook is that there are tool out there that convert
latex to docbook, e.g., pandoc.  And thus we can rely on them instead
of trying to parse latex ourselves.  This way our focus would be to
upload docbook into Diderot.  We can implement the docbook to Diderot
XML by writing a relatively straightforward translation I imagine.  


The counter argument is that there are not that many users of docbook.
It might be better for us to focus our efforts on latex support.  But
what exactly is that support?  The idea would be to take plain latex
and convert it into DEX. 

Another counter argument is that apart from its complexity ODT has all
of the above advantages of Docbook (pandoc produces it) and it also
more widely available.  So, in the end, if the matter is the learning
curve, you might as well sink time into ODT rather than somothing that
is dying (Docbook).

I did some more research into what publishers use.  It seems that
publishers all use their own version of XML.  For example, I have
found that Elsevier uses their owwn and so did another organization
that published proceedings of XML conferences. The point seems to be
that it is so easy to define your own XML language, you might as well
come up with your own.  By no means, Docbook is a standard, and in
fact far away from it.  

My conclusion is this: I don't think we should focus on this.  If and
when our platform becomes a widely accepted one, then we can pair up
with publishers and all it takes to include their content would be to
write an XML translator from their language into our own and off we go.

Of course we can evolve our language over time as well.  

In the long term, it seems that we would be moving towards the ODF...
One interesting experiment could be to translate just one chapter to
ODF using pandoc and see if I can deal with it.


THINK ABOUT THESE.

